New python manual (#372)
neo4j/driver-documentation: python-manual/modules/ROOT/pages/bookmarks.adoc

= Coordinate parallel transactions

> When working with a Neo4j cluster, the driver automatically enforces <<causal_consistency>> for transactions within the same session, which guarantees that a query is able to read changes made by previous queries. The same does not happen by default for multiple xref:transactions.adoc[transactions] running in parallel though. In that case, you can use _bookmarks_ to have one transaction wait for the result of another to be propagated across the cluster before running its own work. This is not a requirement, and *you should only use bookmarks if you _need_ casual consistency across different transactions*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When working with a Neo4j cluster, the driver automatically enforces <<causal_consistency>> for transactions within the same session, which guarantees that a query is able to read changes made by previous queries. 
The same does not happen by default for multiple xref:transactions.adoc[transactions] running in parallel though. 
In that case, you can use _bookmarks_ to have one transaction wait for the result of another to be propagated across the cluster before running its own work. 
This is not a requirement, and *you should only use bookmarks if you _need_ casual consistency across different transactions*.
```

> A _bookmark_ is a token that represents some state of the database. By passing one or multiple bookmarks along with a query, the server will make sure that the query does not get executed before the represented state(s) have been established.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A _bookmark_ is a token that represents some state of the database. 
By passing one or multiple bookmarks along with a query, the serve makes sure that the query does not get executed before the represented state(s) has been established.
```

== Bookmarks within a single session

Bookmark management happens automatically for queries run within a single session, so that you can trust that queries inside one session are causally chained.

[source,python]
----
with driver.session() as session:
    session.execute_write(lambda tx: tx.run("<QUERY 1>"))
    session.execute_write(lambda tx: tx.run("<QUERY 2>"))  # can read QUERY 1
    session.execute_write(lambda tx: tx.run("<QUERY 3>"))  # can read QUERY 1,2
    ...
----

== Bookmarks across multiple sessions

> If your application uses multiple sessions instead, you might need to ensure that one session has completed all its transactions before another session is allowed to run its queries. In those cases, you can collect the bookmarks from some sessions using the method `Session.last_bookmarks()` *(1), (2)*, store them into a `Bookmarks` object, and use them to initialize another session with the `bookmarks` parameter *(3)*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your application uses multiple sessions instead, you may need to ensure that one session has completed all its transactions before another session is allowed to run its queries. 
In those cases, you can collect the bookmarks from some sessions using the method `Session.last_bookmarks()` *(1), (2)*, store them into a `Bookmarks` object, and use them to initialize another session with the `bookmarks` parameter *(3)*.
```

> In the example below, `session_a` and `session_b` are allowed to run concurrently, while `session_c` will wait until their results have been propagated. This guarantees the `Person` nodes `session_c` wants to act on actually exist.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the example below, `session_a` and `session_b` are allowed to run concurrently, while `session_c` waits until their results have been propagated. 
This guarantees that the `Person` nodes `session_c` wants to act on actually exist.
```

        session_c.execute_read(print_friendships)

# Create a person node.
def create_person(tx, name):
    tx.run("CREATE (:Person {name: $name})", name=name)

# Create an employment relationship to a pre-existing company node.
# This relies on the person first having been created.
def employ(tx, person_name, company_name):
    tx.run("MATCH (person:Person {name: $person_name}) "
           "MATCH (company:Company {name: $company_name}) "
           "CREATE (person)-[:WORKS_FOR]->(company)",
           person_name=person_name, company_name=company_name)

# Create a friendship between two people.
def create_friendship(tx, name_a, name_b):
    tx.run("MATCH (a:Person {name: $name_a}) "
           "MATCH (b:Person {name: $name_b}) "
           "MERGE (a)-[:KNOWS]->(b)",
           name_a=name_a, name_b=name_b)

# Retrieve and display all friendships.
def print_friendships(tx):
    result = tx.run("MATCH (a)-[:KNOWS]->(b) RETURN a.name, b.name")
    for record in result:
        print("{} knows {}".format(record["a.name"], record["b.name"]))

if __name__ == "__main__":
    main()
----

image:{common-image}/driver-passing-bookmarks.svg[]

> [TIP]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[TIP]
====
```

> The usage of bookmarks can negatively impact performance, since all queries are forced to wait for the latest changes to be propagated across the cluster. For simple use-cases, try to group queries within a single transaction, or within a single session.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The use of bookmarks can negatively impact performance, since all queries are forced to wait for the latest changes to be propagated across the cluster. 
For simple use-cases, try to group queries within a single transaction, or within a single session.
====
```

= Coordinate different transactions with bookmarks

> When working with a Neo4j cluster, <<causal_consistency>> is enforced by default in most cases, which guarantees that a query is able to read changes made by previous queries. However, if you xref:transactions.adoc[take control of transactions] or if your application is running concurrent transactions, you might need to use _bookmarks_ to avoid the cluster falling back to <<eventual_consistency>>.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure this conveys the right message. Causal consistency is enforced when running queries that required causal consistency in the same session. That's all the driver currently offers (until the bookmark manager is a thing). On the other side we communicate that sessions are cheap to create and that users can and probably should wrap each query in it's own session. That is, unless they explicitly require causal consistency.

Author: Good point. Shall we just take away the note on sessions being cheap to create? Let's just encourage them to use the same session for as much work as possible, I don't think there's any harm in that, right?

Reviewer 2: There is harm in that when they scale their application and go cluster (which admittedly is pretty far down the experience route), they'll have all their queries in one or only a few causal chains. Which makes their application stall a lot while the followers wait to catch up with the bookmarks. Ideally you should have every query in its own session unless you need causal chaining.

Author: I've made another attempt, hopefully the last.
